1. What is Python, and why is it popular?
	Python is a high level Programming language.the reasons why python is popular are:
		1. it is open source, that means anyone can download python and make changes in the original codes
		2. python is high level machine independent 
		3. witting in python feels like giving English instructions
		4. Highly Readable language, just looking at the code would be enough to understand the output
		5. pythons has many inbuilt libraries packages and modules which makes coding easy.



2. What is an interpreter in Python?
	Interpreter can defined as a translator which converts python code (high level language) into machine code ( low level
	language) line by line.
	
3. What are pre-defined keywords in Python?
	tokens: smallest unit of a programming language is called tokens 
	types of tokens:
		1. keywords
		2. operators
		3. identifiers
		3. constants or literals
		4 white spaces
	keywords are are reserved words of a programming language, that means they hold a separate meaning which cannot be used as 
	an identifier.
	examples: for, which, if, else, in , is
	
	the fact that they are called predefined is due to they are inbuilt keywords and are not defined by user.


4. Can keywords be used as variable names?
	No, keywords cannot be used as Variable names , as keywords are reserved words , according to python programming protocol
	the keywords cannot be used as variables.

5. What is mutability in Python?
	mutability refers to the property of a data-structure to allow the changes after it has been initialize.
	which means the mutable data types can be changed after initialised, and the address doesn't change.
	
	ex: List is a mutable datatype
	
	list = [1,2,3,4,5"swabira",True,"chand"]
	print(list)
	# [1,2,3,4,5"swabira",True,"chand"]
	list[2] = 100
	print(list)
	# [1,2,100,4,5"swabira",True,"chand"]
	

 6. Why are lists mutable, but tuples are immutable?
	Just like mutable datatypes there are immutable datatype
	
	immutable: which cannot be change once initialized, if changes are done the object no longer has same address as before
	the fact that the List is mutable and Tuple is immutable is because they are built ln that way 
	and another reason is that, the list can read and write the data even after initializing but tuples can only read the data 
	once they are initialize.
	list[1] = 100 gives no error but 
	tuple[1] = 200 gives error

	

7. What is the difference between "==" and "is"operators in Python?
	"==" is a relational operator which checks whether to variables contains same data
	"is" is a identity operator which checks whether both the variables are pointing to the same address or not 
	
	a = 10;
	b = 10;
	
	a == b  (True)
	a is b  (False)
	as they both have different address
	
	
8. What are logical operators in Python?
	operator: a type of token which performs operations on operators
	
	logical operators are used to combine multiple conditions in a program example logical and and logical or 
	logical and (&&) : only true if all the conditions are true
	logical or (||) : only false if all the conditions ae false
	
	
9. What is type casting in Python?
	type casting in python refers to the change in datatype of the variable
	although the python does not requires to mention the type explicitly when writing a program 
	it internally has two types of type casting:  
		1. implicit - done by the interpreter 
		2. explicit - done by the user
		
		
10. What is the difference between implicit and explicit type casting?

	1. implicit - done by the interpreter 
		interpreter can up-cast the datatype if the size is not enough to store the result
			a = 5
			b= 5.0
			type(a+b) is float 
	2. explicit - done by the user
		if one wants a+b to be an integer they can explicitly caste the data type 
			c = int(2+3.0)
			type(c) is int


11. What is the purpose of conditional statements in Python?
	conditional statements are used to control the flow of the program based on the condition with which they are provided
	in real life situations, there exits many decisions and one should perform accordingly 
	in programming, control flow statements, like conditional statements makes it possible 


12.How does the elif statement work?
	elif  = else +if
	
	if(condition 1){
		if block
		}
	else {
		if(condition 2){
			else if block
			}
		}
	 here the else block and if block inside else block are combinely written as elif 
	 this elif mimic its functionality 

13. What is the difference between for and while loops?
	the major difference between for and while loop are:
	1. for loops is called iterative loop since it is majorly used to iterate over the data while 
	the while loop called repeatative block since it repeats until a specific conditions i met
	2. for loop most of the time knows where to stop in prior but 
	while loop does not know in prior it is decided at runtime
	3. syntax difference 
		the for loop has its initializing/declaration, condition, update value at same place while
		while loop has initialization outside , condition in parenthesis and update inside the block
		but mostly semantic remains same


14. Describe a scenario where a while loop is more suitable than a for loop.
	for linear search it is better to use for loop since iteration is required but ,
	for binary search we need while loop with a condition (left<=right)
	until the condition is not false
	
	since we don't know when the program will stop or how many iterations it would take to complete the program majorly 
	for loop is not used;



	
	
	
	
	
	
	
















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
